# Start

In order to start the project, fork this repo and clone it on your local machine. <br><br />
Then:

- navigate to the `/client` folder and run `docker build -t react-app .`
- navigate to the `/server` folder and run `docker build -t pixsy-server .`

Finally, go to the root directory of the project and run `docker-compose up`
<br><br />
You will be able to see the project running at http://localhost:3000

---

<br><br />

## Solution

The goal was to simplify the signup process. To do so, I have:

- provided a descriptive error message showing if went wrong (for instance, if the email was already present in the db)
- upon entering the email, the user has multiple links with which he/she can

1. make changes to his/her email
2. send another verification code

- A message also displays with what email the user signed up
- Additionally, a modal could be opened showing a more descriptive log of the email and time at which the email was sent to the user
  <br><br />

---

## Technical Choices

<br><br />
In order to authenticate the user, I generate a JSON Web Token in the Back End, which is then stored in the local Storage of the browser. This might not be best practice, as it can expose sensitive information of the user stores in the JWT. However, in this case the payload was simply the user id generated by the mongoDB.
<br><br />

To handle the signup flow, I have created a middleware function that enables me to protect routes that can only be accessed if the user has a JWT. However, the flow could be improved, as right now I need to search for the user in he db and generate the JWT associated with him. This is costly and could be improved either bu using cookies or setting the JWT in the headers.

<br><br />
Further, I have also decided to store the information of the user in a global store, mocking a redux architecture. This might seem trivial in such a small application. However, in a real world scenario this would have saved a lot of hassle of passing state around.

---

<br><br />

## Next steps

- As the code grows, I would separate the controlllers in the BE in different files.
- I would perhaps use GraphQL if the code base starts to grow.
